Chapter 3
When she led me upstairs, she advised me to hide the candles and to keep quiet. For her master had an odd opinion of the bedroom to which she had led me, and was never pleased to let anyone sleep there. I asked what the reason was, and she replied that she didn't know. She had only lived here for a year or two, and they had so many odd things going on, she didn't bother to ask more.
I was too dizzy to ask many questions, so I closed the door and looked around to find a bed. All the furniture was a chair, a closet, and a large oak chest. Near the top, a few square holes dug, like a carriage window. As I got closer to the thing and looked inside, I saw that it was a special kind of old-fashioned couch, designed so conveniently that it eliminated the need for each member of the family to occupy a room. In fact, it formed a small suite. One of the windowsills inside it served as a table. I pushed open the paneled door, entered with the candle, and closed the paneled door again, feeling safe and secure from the vigilance of Hitchcliffe and the others.
On the windowsill where I kept the candles were several moldy books stacked in a corner, and the painted surface of the windowsill was scratched with handwriting. But the handwriting was simply a name in various scripts, both large and small - Catherine Enshaw, changed in some places to Catherine Hitchcliffe, followed by Catherine Linton.
I leaned my head listlessly against the window and spelled Catherine Enshaw - Hitchcliffe - Linton continuously until my eyes closed. But not even five minutes later, there was a blindingly bright white flashing letters in the darkness, as if a ghost had come to life - the air was filled with many Catherine. I jumped up to dispel the sudden name, and found my wick leaning against an old book, making the leaning place smell like roasted cowhide. I cut the wick and extinguished it, and, uncomfortable under the cold and the constant attack of nausea, I sat up and opened the baked book and laid it on my lap. It was a Bible, printed in slender type, with a strong musty smell. The white paper on the front of the book read - "Catherine Enshaw, her book", with a date, which was some twenty years ago. I closed it and picked up another, and another, until I had examined them all. Catherine's collection had been selected, and the damage to the books proved that they had been read over and over again, though not entirely properly, and hardly a chapter had escaped the pen-written commentary-at least, it seemed like commentary-where the printer had left every Every blank space left by the printer is covered. Some are incoherent sentences, others are in the form of formal diaries, written in the unsettled handwriting of a child. On the top of one of the spare pages (which I may have treasured as soon as I found it) I was delighted to see a wonderful caricature of my friend Joseph - crudely drawn, but powerful. My interest in this Catherine, whom I had never met, was instant, and I began to identify her faded and illegible letters.
"Unlucky Sunday!" The bottom paragraph begins. "I wish my father would come back again. Hindley is an odious agent--he is too mean for Hitchcliffe. --Hi and I are going to revolt - tonight we are going to take the first step.
"It rained heavily all day and we couldn't go to church, so Joseph had to meet in the attic. So just as Sindre and his wife were comfortably roasting downstairs - doing whatever they wanted to do, I dare say they would never read the Bible, - Hitchcliffe, myself and the unfortunate hick were ordered to climb upstairs with our prayer books. We sat in a row on a pocket of grain, grunting and shivering. Hopefully, Joseph shivered too, so that he would give us less sermons for his own sake. What a delusion! The service dragged on for three whole hours. But when my brother saw us coming downstairs, he had the nerve to shout, 'What, is it over? We used to be allowed to play on Sunday nights as long as we didn't make too much noise, but now we have to stand in the corner if we sneer!
"'You forget that there is a master here,' said the tyrant, 'whoever first makes me angry, I will destroy him! I insist on complete silence. Ah, boy! Is that you? Francis, my dear, pull his hair as you approach, and I hear him pinch his fingers.' Frances pulled his hair painfully, and then came and sat on her husband's knee. There they were, like two children, kissing and babbling the whole hour - the kind of silly sweet talk that even we should be ashamed of. We tried to make ourselves quite comfortable inside the cupboard's rounded arch. I had just knotted our napkins together and hung them up as a curtain, when suddenly Joseph had something coming in from the stable. He ripped my handiwork off, slapped me, and grunted -
"'How dare you play when the master is only in the ground, and the Sabbath is not yet over, and the voice of the gospel is still ringing in your ears! How shameful you are! Sit down, bad boys! There are good books, if you will only read them. Sit down and think about your souls!'
"Having said this, he forced us to sit down so that we could get a ray of dim light from the far side of the fire, so that we could read the useless Scriptures he had shoved down our throats. I couldn't stand this errand. I lifted the spine of my dirty book and threw it hard into the doghouse, betting that I hated good books. Hitchcliffe threw his copy in the same place. Followed by a fuss.
"'Young Master Hindley!' our chaplain shouted, 'Come on, young master! Miss Kitty has torn the cover off the Helmet of Salvation, and Hitchcliffe is stepping hard on the first part of The Broad Road to Destruction! You can't let them go on like that. Oh! If it were the old man, he would have given them a good beating - but he is not here!
"Sindre came from his fireside haven, grabbed us both, one by the collar and the other by the armpit, and threw us both into the back kitchen. Joseph asserted that there 'Old Nick'1 would surely take us alive. After we were so helped, we each found a corner and waited for it to come. I reached out from the bookshelf and found this book and a bottle of ink, so I pushed the door open a little to let in some light, and I wrote for twenty minutes to amuse myself. But my companion, impatient, suggested that we could put on the milking woman's coat and go for a run in the wilderness. An oddly interesting suggestion - then, if that bad-tempered old man had come in, he would have believed his prophecy had come true - and we would not have been wetter or colder in the rain than we are here."
①Old Nick - Old Nick, the devil.
I guess Catherine realized her plan, because the next sentence says something else, and she got sad.
"I never dreamed that Sindre would make me cry so much!" She wrote, "I have a headache that hurts so much I can't sleep on my pillow. But I still can't stop crying. Poor Hitchcliffe! Hindley called him a rascal and forbade him to sit and eat with us any more. And he said that he was not allowed to play with me, and threatened to throw him out if we disobeyed him. He also blamed our father (how dare he?) He treated Hsi too generously, and swore that he would bring him down to his rightful place."
I began to nod off at the blurred pages, my eyes flicking from the manuscript to the printed words. I saw a red-colored title in flowery letters-"Seventy times seven, with the first article of the seventy-first. A theological treatise preached by the Rev. Jebus Bertrandheim at the church in Jimer Tunchow." While I was muddling through my brain trying to guess how Pastor Jebus Bertrandheim would play out his title, I fell asleep in bed. Ahem, the effects of this unlucky tea and bad temper! What else could be enough to get me through such a dreadful night? Since I learned to suffer, I can't remember a time that compares to this night.
I began to dream, almost before I had forgotten where I was. I think it was morning, and I headed for home, with Joseph leading the way. The snow was several yards deep along the way. As we struggled on, my companion kept scolding me and annoying me. He scolded me for not carrying a walking stick for the pilgrimage to the mountains, telling me that I would never enter my home without it, and proudly waving a large-headed stick, which I understood was called a walking stick. At the time, I thought it was absurd to need such a weapon to enter my own home. Followed by a flash of a new thought. I wasn't going there, we were making a long journey to hear the famous Jebus Bertrandheim preach the "seventy times seven" scripture, and for Joseph, or the pastor, or me to break the "first article of the seventy-one" would be publicly denounced, and be removed from the church.
We came to the church. I had actually walked there two or three times on my regular walks. It is in a valley between two hills: a valley above the ground near a bog, where the moisture of the peat is said to have been sufficient to embalm the few dead bodies stored there. The roof is still intact, but the clergyman's income here is only twenty pounds a year, plus a two-room house, and it is feared that it will be decided to give only one, so no clergyman is willing to take the responsibility of shepherd, especially since it is said that his "flock" would rather starve him than pay a penny more out of their own pockets to feed him. But in my dream, Jebus had a full synagogue congregation listening intently to the sermon. He preached a sermon - for goodness sake! What a sermon, divided into four hundred and ninety verses, each one exactly equal to an ordinary sermon, each one discussing a sin! I don't know where he found all these sins. He had his own way of explaining the rhetoric, as if the faithful were bound to commit different kinds of sins at all times. The nature of these sins was extremely strange: some strange and bizarre sins that I had never imagined before.
Ah, how weary I was! How I tossed, yawned, dozed, and came to my senses! How I pinched myself, stabbed myself, rubbed my eyes, stood up, sat down again, and touched Joseph with my elbow to tell me whether he had finished speaking or not. I was destined to hear the end. Finally, he came to the "first article of the seventy-first". At this point, I involuntarily stood up and accused Jebus Bertrandheim of being a sinner who had committed that sin which no Christian can forgive.
"Sir," I cried, "sitting in the midst of these four walls, I have endured and forgiven you for four hundred and ninety subjects of this sermon in a row of breath. Seventy-seven times I have taken up my hat, intending to leave. --Seventy seven times you have forced me to sit down again. This four hundred and ninety-one is unbearable. Religious refugees, hit him! Pull him down, smash him up, and let him never be seen again in this place where he is known!"
"You are the sinner!" After a moment of solemn silence, Jebus yelled as he yawned from his cushion. "Seventy-seven times you opened your mouth wide for a strange look-seventy-seven times I consulted with my soul-behold, it is a human weakness, and this too is pardonable! Here comes the first article of the seventy-first. Brethren, carry out on him the written judges. He ① All the saints have this glory!"
①He means "God". The first letter is capitalized to show respect to God. In China, believers often write "He" when they talk about God.
As soon as the words were spoken, the whole congregation raised their walking sticks and came at me together. I had no weapon to defend myself, so I began to twist Joseph, the nearest and most aggressive perpetrator, and grabbed his walking stick. As the tide of people converged, many sticks crossed, and the blows coming at me landed on the heads of others. Immediately the whole church pinged and banged. Each man moved against his neighbor. And Bertrandheim, not content to remain idle, gave vent to his enthusiasm by pounding hard on the pulpit wall, so loudly that he woke me up at last, to my indescribable relief. What was it that conjured up that great harassment? Who was playing the role of Jebus in this noise? It was only the branch of a fir tree that touched my window pane as the wind sighed, and its dried fruit rattled against the glass surface! I listened for a moment with suspicion; found out that it was it that disturbed me, and then turned over and went to sleep again, and dreamed again: a dream, if possible, more unpleasant than the previous one.
This time, I remember that I was lying in the oak suite. I heard the snow and wind clearly; I also heard the fir branches repeating that teasing sound, and knew what it was about. But it annoyed me so much that I decided, if possible, to stop the sound. I think I got up and tried to open the window. The window hook was welded into the hook and loop - a situation I had seen when I woke up, but had forgotten about. "I have to stop it, no matter what!" I grunted, punched my fist through the glass, and stretched out an arm to grab the stirring tree. Instead of grabbing it, my fingers touched the fingers of a small, cold hand! The horror of the nightmare overwhelmed me, and I tried desperately to pull my arm back, but the hand pulled back, and a very melancholy voice sobbed: "Let me in--let me in!" "Who are you?" I asked, while desperately trying to get my hand free.
"Katherine Linton," the voice replied, trembling (why did I think of Linton? Twenty times I have pronounced Linton as Ensign). "I've come home, I've got lost in the wilderness!" As she spoke, I vaguely recognized a child's face looking out the window. Terror made me ruthless, and realizing that it was useless to try to get rid of the man, I pulled her wrist to the broken glass surface and rubbed it back and forth until the blood dripped down and stained the sheets. But she still wailed, "Let me in!" And still clinging to me, it was driving me crazy. "How can I?" I finally said. "If you want me to let you in, let go of me first!" The fingers loosened. I drew my hand back from the window hole, hurriedly piled my books high against the window, and covered my ears from hearing that pitiful prayer for more than a quarter of an hour. But when I listened again, the miserable cry continued to wail! "Go away!" I shouted, "I will never let you in even if you beg me for twenty years." "It has been twenty years," cried the voice, "twenty years. I have been a wanderer for twenty years!" Then a slight scraping sound began outside, and the pile of books moved, as if someone had pushed it away. I tried to jump up, but I couldn't move my limbs, so I shouted in horror. What made me wretched was that I realized the shout was not unreal. A rush of footsteps approached the door of my bedroom. Someone pushed the door open and a light shone faintly through the square hole at the top of the bed. I sat still shivering and wiping the sweat from my forehead. The man who broke in seemed to hesitate, grunting to himself. Finally he said softly, "Is anyone here?" Obviously no answer was expected. I thought it best to admit that I was here, because I could hear Hitchcliffe's accent and was afraid that if I didn't say anything, he would search further. With this in mind, I rolled over and pushed open the paneling. The effect of my action would be one that I would not forget for a long time.
Hitchcliffe stood in the doorway, wearing a shirt and pants, holding a candle, the oil of which was dripping onto his fingers, his face as pale as the wall behind him. The first thud of the oak door startled him as if he had been electrocuted: the candle in his hand jumped out a few feet, and he was so excited that he could not even pick it up.
"It's just that your guest is here, sir." I called out to save him from losing face by exposing his cowardly appearance even more. "I had a terrible nightmare and had the misfortune to call up in my sleep. I am sorry that I disturbed you."
"Ah, God punish you, Mr. Lockwood! Would that you were in--" began my host, placing the candle on a chair, for he found it impossible to hold it without shaking it. "Who brought you into this house?" He went on, and pinched his nails into his palms, grinding his teeth, in order to stop the trembling of his palate bones. "Who brought you here? I'd like to chuck them out the door right this minute!"
"It's your maid, Zillah," I replied, jumping to the floor and hastily dressing. "You shoo, and I don't care, Mr. Hitchcliffe. She deserves it, and I suspect she's just going to use me to prove the place is haunted again. Ahem, it's haunted - the house is full of demons and monsters! I say to you, you're justified in keeping it locked up. Anyone who has slept in such a hole will not thank you!"
"What do you mean?" Hitchcliffe asked, "What are you doing? Now that you're here, lie down and sleep through the night! But, for heaven's sake! Don't make that awful cry again. That's not forgivable, unless your throat is being cut!"
"If that goblin had come in through the window, she'd probably have choked me to death!" I said back. "I am not prepared to be persecuted by your hospitable ancestors any longer. Wasn't the Reverend Jebus Bertrandheim a relative of your mother's? And that crazy girl, Catherine Linton, or Enshaw, whatever her surname may be - she must be a fickle - wicked little soul! She tells me she's been wandering the ground for the last twenty years - I don't doubt it, she deserves exactly what she gets!'
Before these words were uttered, I immediately remembered the connection between the two names of Hitchcliffe and Catherine in that book, a point I had completely forgotten, and only then awoke. I blushed at my carelessness, but, to show that I did not perceive my presumption, I hastened to add, "The fact is, sir, that I was in the middle of the night--" I stopped short at this point-- -I almost said "reading those old books," which would have shown that I knew not only what was printed in them, but also what was written with a pen. So I corrected myself and went on like this - "Spelling the names carved on the windowsill. A very monotonous work, intended to put me to sleep, like counting numbers, or-"
"What on earth do you mean by pontificating to me in this way?" Hitchcliffe shouted, brutality seizing him. "How--how dare you in my house? --My God! He must be mad to talk like that!" He struck his forehead angrily.
I didn't know whether it was better to argue with him or to go on explaining. But he seemed so shaken that I pitied him, and went on with my dream, affirming that I had never heard the name "Catherine Linton" before, but had pronounced it too much to get an impression, which became real when I could no longer restrain my imagination. Hitchcliffe slowly leaned back on the bed as I spoke, and finally sat down almost hidden behind it. But, listening to his irregular upward and downward breathing, I guessed he was desperately trying to restrain his overpowering emotions. I didn't want him to see that I had sensed that he was in conflict, so I continued to freshen up, making a lot of noise, and looking at my watch, complaining to myself about the long night.
"It's not even three o'clock! I would have sworn that it was six o'clock, but time has stopped here: we must have gone to bed at eight o'clock!"
"In winter it's always nine o'clock to bed and always four to rise," said my master, suppressing a groan. Watching the movement of the shadow of his armpit, I guessed that he wiped a tear from his eye. "Mr. Lockwood," he said again, "you can come to my house. You are also in the way of others by coming downstairs so early, and your childish yelling has driven away my sandman."
"So do I." I replied. "I'm going to walk around the yard, and I'll leave when it's light. You need not fear that I will disturb you again. I am now cured of this desire to make friends for pleasure, whether in the country or in the city. A sober-minded man should find it enough to keep his own company."
"Pleasant company!" Hitchcliffe cooed, "Take the candle and go wherever you like. I'll come to you. But don't go out into the yard, the dogs are unleashed. In the hall - Juno is standing guard there, and - no, you can only sneak around the stairs and aisles. But go on! I'll be here in a couple of minutes."
I obeyed, and left this bedroom. Not knowing then where the narrow hut led, I had to remain standing there, but unexpectedly I overheard my landlord making a superstitious gesture, which was strange, and it seemed that he was only apparently in his right mind.
He got into bed, twisted open the window, and while opening it, gushed out suppressed hot tears. "Come in! Come in!" He sobbed. "Katie, come on! Ah, come on - do it again! Aah! My beloved! Listen to me this time, Katie, for the last time!" The apparition, showing the capriciousness of ghosts, did not come! Only the wind and snow blew with violent haste, even to the place where I stood, and blew out the candles.
In this sudden outpouring of sorrow, there was such anguish accompanying the frenzied words that my pity for him made me overlook the folly of his manners. I avoided it, being secretly angry with myself for having heard his words, and on the other hand, annoyed with myself for having told my absurd nightmare, for it was that dream that produced this mourning. As to why it came about, I don't understand. I went downstairs carefully to the back kitchen, where there was a spark of fire, which, plucked together, made me light the candle. There was no movement, only a spotted gray cat crawling out of the ashes and saluting me with a grumbling mee-woo.
Two benches, arranged in a semicircle, almost enclosed the fire. I lay down on one bench, and the old mother cat jumped on the other. We were both napping when someone came along and messed up: Joseph lowered a wooden ladder, which led through a trapdoor into the attic: I guessed this was his way up to the attic. He glanced hard at the fire I had flicked up, shooed the cat from under its high seat, settled himself in the vacated seat, and began the act of filling his three-inch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctuary was apparently seen by him as something reckless that he was ashamed to mention. He silently passed the pipe to his mouth, crossed his arms and puffed out the clouds. I let him enjoy his repose without disturbing him. He finished his last puff, let out a deep breath, stood up, and walked out again as solemnly as he had walked in.
Then someone came in with a brisk step; now I opened my mouth to say good morning, but closed it again, and the salute was not completed, for Harrington Enshaw was in SottoVoce1 saying his morning prayers, that is to say, as he searched the corner of the house for a shovel or a shovel to shovel the snow, he had to utter a string of curses at everything he touched. He glanced behind the bench and opened his nostrils wide, thinking he didn't need to be as polite to me as he was to my cat companion. Seeing how ready he was, I guess he gave me permission to go, and I left my hard seat, intending to follow him. Noticing this, he poked a black door with the head of his shovel, indicating without a word that if I were to change my place of residence, I would have to go here.
① Italian, meaning "secretly whisper".
The door led to the hall, where the women were already moving around: Zillah was blowing the fire up the chimney with a huge bellows; Mrs. Hitchcliffe, kneeling by the fire, was reading a book by the light of the fire. She shielded her hand from the heat of the fire, so that it did not hurt her eyes, as if she was reading intently. She only stopped reading when she scolded the maid for not getting sparks on her, or when she pushed away a dog that always came close to her face with its nose. I was surprised to see Hitchcliffe there too. He was standing by the fire, with his back toward me. Having just had a tantrum with poor Zillah, she put down her work now and then, pulled up the corner of her apron, and made an exasperated grunt.
"And you, you no-good--" He was turning to his daughter-in-law when I entered and seething, and adding a harmless word after the adjective, such as duck, or sheep, but often adding nothing but a "--" to represent it now. "There you are again, doing your boring tricks! Other people can earn a living - you only rely on me! Leave your crap behind and find something to do! You'll get what's coming to you if you keep annoying me in front of my eyes - you hear me, you fucking bitch!"
"I'll throw my crap away, because if I refuse, you can still force me to do it." The young woman replied, closing her book and dropping it on a chair.
"But you just curse out your tongue, and I'm not doing anything else but what I'm willing to do!"
Hitchcliffe held up his hand, and the speaker, apparently familiar with the weight of that hand, immediately jumped to a safer farther place. I did not care to watch a cat and dog fight, so I walked briskly forward, as if I was eager to warm myself by the fire, completely ignoring the interrupted quarrel. Both sides had enough courtesy to stop further hostilities for the time being. Hitchcliffe unknowingly put his fist in his pocket. Mrs. Hitchcliffe pouted and sat down in a chair at a distance, and during the time I stayed there, she did as she was told, playing the role of a stone statue. I did not stay long. I declined to go to breakfast with them. When the dawn first broke, I seized the opportunity to escape into the free air outside, which was now fresh, quiet and as cold as an invisible ice.
I had not yet reached the end of the garden when my landlord called out to me that he would accompany me through the wilderness. It was a good thing he accompanied me, because the whole ridge seemed like a white ocean of rolling waves. Its undulations did not indicate the unevenness of the ground: at least, many pits were filled in; and the whole winding hills - the remnants of the quarry - were erased from the map I had left on my mind when I walked over them yesterday. I had noticed on one side of the road, at intervals of six or seven yards, rows of upright stones, continuing to the end of the moor. These stones were erected and painted with lime to mark the way in the darkness; and for when, as now, a heavy snow confused the deeper edges and firmer paths on either side. But all trace of the presence of these stones had disappeared, except for a mud spot here and there, which was sporadically visible. While I thought I was following the winding road correctly, my companion needed to warn me now and then to turn left or right.
We rarely spoke, and he stopped at the entrance to the Painted Garden and said I could not go wrong until I got here. Our goodbyes were limited to a hasty bow, and then I went radially ahead. I trusted myself with the ability, for the keeper's residence was not yet leased out. It was two miles from the gate to the field house, and I believe I gave it four miles. Having lost my way in the woods, and having been buried up to my neck in a snow pit: a difficult situation that only those who have experienced it can appreciate. Anyway, no matter how much I wandered, the clock was striking twelve when I entered the house. This points out that it took a full hour to follow the usual road back from Wuthering Heights, each mile of which took a full hour.
My housekeeper and her entourage, who sat still at home, flocked out to welcome me, shouting that they all thought I was hopeless. Everyone guessed that I had died last night. They did not know how to set out to find my body. Now that they saw me back, I told them to be quiet, I was freezing too. I struggled upstairs, changed into dry clothes, and paced around for 30 or 40 minutes to regain my strength. I went to my study again, weak as a kitten, barely able to enjoy the roaring fire and steaming coffee that the servants had prepared to restore my spirits.